README.md, before:

# AQIVisualizer

AQIVisualizer is a command-line Python application that fetches the Air Quality Index (AQI) data for a specified city and generates a landscape image that artistically represents the current air quality conditions. The tool uses environmental data APIs and OpenAI's image generation capabilities to overlay the AQI value on the image in a hyper-realistic style.

For example: 

![image](https://github.com/jatinkrmalik/aqi-visualizer/assets/7387945/44331e70-0d0e-4ca3-a320-0e3f3c98a76a)

![image](https://github.com/jatinkrmalik/aqi-visualizer/assets/7387945/5a0db253-bbed-4185-b472-2a7f4a894101)

![image](https://github.com/jatinkrmalik/aqi-visualizer/assets/7387945/ac684b55-8585-4741-9f76-fbbb9ec478e2)


## Features

- Fetch real-time AQI data for any specified city.
- Generate a hyper-realistic image of the city's landmark with an AQI representation.
- Customize the text overlay on the generated image.
- Command-line arguments for easy customization.
- Save the final image to a specified path.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have met the following requirements:

- Python 3.6 or higher installed on your machine.
- An active internet connection to fetch data from APIs and generate images.
- API keys for OpenAI and AQICN services.

## Installation

To install AQIVisualizer, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository or download the source code to your local machine.
2. Navigate to the project directory.
3. Install the required Python dependencies:
   ```sh
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
4. Set up your API keys as environment variables:
   ```sh
   export OPEN_AI_TOKEN=your_openai_token
   export AQICN_TOKEN=your_aqicn_token
   ```
   Replace `your_openai_token` and `your_aqicn_token` with your actual OpenAI and AQICN API keys, respectively.

## Usage

To use AQIVisualizer, you can run the script with optional command-line arguments. Here's how you can execute the script:

```sh
python aqivisualizer.py --city "City Name" --text "Custom Text Overlay"
```

### Command-line Arguments

- `--city`: Specify the city name for which you want to fetch the AQI data and generate the image. If not provided, "here" will be used as the default value.
- `--text`: Custom text to overlay on the image. If not provided, the default text will be in the format "City Name // AQI".
- `--help`: Display help information and exit.

When you run the script, it will prompt you to enter the path where you want to save the generated image. Enter the desired file path, and the script will handle the rest.

## Contributing

If you would like to contribute to the development of AQIVisualizer, please follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature_branch`).
3. Make changes and add them (`git add .`).
4. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some feature'`).
5. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature_branch`).
6. Open a pull request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Contact

If you have any questions or feedback, please contact the project maintainer.

Happy visualizing!

Commit message:

Refactor codebase into modular components
This commit restructures the AQIVisualizer project into a more maintainable and comprehensible format by dividing the code into distinct modules. Each module encapsulates specific functionalities, aligning with the Single Responsibility Principle and enhancing the clarity of the codebase.

Changes include:
- `aqi_api.py`: Dedicated to fetching AQI data from the API.
- `image_generator.py`: Handles image generation and text overlay logic.
- `cli.py`: Manages command-line argument parsing.
- `utils.py`: Configures the logging across the application.
- `main.py`: Acts as the entry point, orchestrating the overall program flow.

Additionally, the README.md has been updated to reflect the new project structure, providing clear instructions on setup and execution. This refactor not only improves the current state of the code but also lays a robust foundation for future features and potential contributions.

README.md, after:

# AQIVisualizer

AQIVisualizer is a command-line Python application that fetches the Air Quality Index (AQI) data for a specified city and generates a landscape image that artistically represents the current air quality conditions. The tool uses environmental data APIs and OpenAI's image generation capabilities to overlay the AQI value on the image in a hyper-realistic style.

For example: 

![image](https://github.com/jatinkrmalik/aqi-visualizer/assets/7387945/44331e70-0d0e-4ca3-a320-0e3f3c98a76a)

![image](https://github.com/jatinkrmalik/aqi-visualizer/assets/7387945/5a0db253-bbed-4185-b472-2a7f4a894101)


## Features

- Fetch real-time AQI data for any specified city.
- Generate a hyper-realistic image of the city's landmark with an AQI representation.
- Customize the text overlay on the generated image.
- Command-line arguments for easy customization.
- Save the final image to a specified path.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have met the following requirements:

- Python 3.6 or higher installed on your machine.
- An active internet connection to fetch data from APIs and generate images.
- API keys for OpenAI and AQICN services.

## Project Structure

The project is organized into the following modules:

- `aqi_api.py`: Handles the fetching of AQI data from the environmental data API.
- `image_generator.py`: Manages the generation of images and the addition of text overlays.
- `cli.py`: Contains the command-line interface logic for accepting user inputs.
- `utils.py`: Provides utility functions such as logging setup.
- `main.py`: Serves as the entry point to the application, orchestrating the flow between modules

## Installation

To install AQIVisualizer, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository or download the source code to your local machine.
2. Navigate to the project directory.
3. Install the required Python dependencies:
   ```sh
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
4. Set up your API keys as environment variables:
   ```sh
   export OPEN_AI_TOKEN=your_openai_token
   export AQICN_TOKEN=your_aqicn_token
   ```
   Replace `your_openai_token` and `your_aqicn_token` with your actual OpenAI and AQICN API keys, respectively.

## Usage

To use AQIVisualizer, you can run the script with optional command-line arguments. Here's how you can execute the script:

```sh
python main.py --city "City Name" --text "Custom Text Overlay" --output "path/to/save/image"
```

### Command-line Arguments

- `--city`: Specify the city name for which you want to fetch the AQI data and generate the image. If not provided, "here" will be used as the default value.
- `--text`: Custom text to overlay on the image. If not provided, the default text will be in the format "City Name // AQI".
- `--output`: Specify the path where you want to save the generated image. If not provided, the image will be saved in the current directory.
- `--help`: Display help information and exit.


## Contributing

If you would like to contribute to the development of AQIVisualizer, please follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository.
2. Create a new branch (`git checkout -b feature_branch`).
3. Make changes and add them (`git add .`).
4. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some feature'`).
5. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature_branch`).
6. Open a pull request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Contact

If you have any questions or feedback, please contact the project maintainer.

Happy visualizing!
